EMS STUDY GUIDE - Questions & Answers
======================================

1. Q: Why do we worry about inaccurate run reports
   A: If you go to court, you could be questioned on the entire report

2. Q: What is the mobile radio
   A: Mobile radio is installed in a vehicle and operates at a lower power than base station; 10-15 mile range.

3. Q: Stimulants vs opiods pupil size
   A: Opiod pupils are pinpoint and stimulant pupils are dilated

4. Q: Signs and symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning
   A: Headache, nausea, flu like symptoms.

5. Q: How do you know if pupils are reactive to light.
   A: Pupils are reactive to light if they dilate when light is shined.

6. Q: How do most kids overdose
   A: Accidentally by ingestion

8. Q: Should we ever play games with patient's mental status
   A: No, be patient, use reflective listening, be honest, and calm.

9. Q: Who do we normally see get type 1 diabetes?
   A: Type 1 diabetes is when your body doesn't produce enough insulin - we typically see children diagnosed with this.

10. Q: How do you fix an error on a written paper report
    A: Write a line through the mistake in pen and initial

11. Q: Why do we check BG on suspected intoxicated patients?
    A: Hypoglycemia has similar symptoms to being drunk

12. Q: What are signs and symptoms of hypo and hyperglycemia?
    A: Hyperglycemia: shallow/rapid breaths, pale moist skin, diaphoresis, rapid pulse, altered mental state, weakness on one side of the body.
       Hypoglycemia: warm/dry skin, dehydration, increased urination, present/increasing hunger.

13. Q: What is the definition of pertinent negative
    A: Findings that warrant no care or intervention. Negative findings that support actual cause.

14. Q: What are mittelschmerz pains
    A: Pains in the middle abdomen during ovulation

16. Q: Can run reports be subpoenaed
    A: Yes

17. Q: What kind of bags does evidence go into?
    A: Brown paper bags

18. Q: What condition can give the breath a fruity smell
    A: Diabetic Ketoacidosis (DKA)

19. Q: What is SLUDGE?
    A: Salivation/Sweating, Lacrimation, Urination, Defecation/Drooling/Diarrhea, Gastric upset and cramps, Emesis, Muscle twitching/miosis

21. Q: Signs and symptoms of UTI
    A: Excessive urination, smell, altered mental state, burning with urination

22. Q: Read up on PID (Pelvic Inflammatory Disease)
    A: Infection in upper female reproductive organs. Bacteria enters during sex can cause sterility or life threatening events. Generalized low abdomen pain, foul smelling discharge, increased pain during sex, fever, chills, pain or burning during urination

23. Q: What does omitted mean
    A: Leaving out important info on PCR that can lead to legal issues

24. Q: What is affect
    A: Outward expression of a patient

25. Q: Study on kidney stones
    A: Form when chemicals crystalize in the urine. Grow over time. Can cause blockage and discomfort in flank, and radiates towards the groin. Can cause nausea and vomiting.

26. Q: Make sure you understand AVPU
    A: Awake/alert, Verbal, Pain, Unresponsive

27. Q: How do you administer nitro tablets and spray
    A: Nitro tablets and spray are sublingual (under tongue)

28. Q: What is a EMD and why are they beneficial?
    A: Emergency Medical Dispatcher can give instructions to person calling 911 (i.e. how to give CPR)

29. Q: What are some things diabetes can cause?
    A: Hyper or hypoglycemia, DKA, loss of body parts, loss of eye sight, seizures, stroke

30. Q: Is hypotension common with dialysis patients?
    A: Yes, hypotension is common with dialysis patients.

32. Q: Why do patients go into dialysis?
    A: They are in renal failure. Their blood is filtered and cleansed of toxins.

33. Q: Can you drop F bombs on the radio - are you allowed?
    A: No

34. Q: Remember your tone can tell if you want to be dealing with a patient
    A: (The above is a statement, not a question)

36. Q: What do you do if you don't hear the med director that well?
    A: Ask them to repeat or call

37. Q: Read up on genitourinary
    A: Kidneys, ureters, bladder, urethra, men (testicles and prostate) and female (ovaries, uterus, vagina)

38. Q: What is the difference in type 1 and type 2 diabetes?
    A: Type 1: Can't produce insulin; sometimes born with it
	Type 2: Produces insulin, but doesn't get into cells correctly; developed

39. Q: Where do we absorb toxins through the mouth
    A: Buccal and mucus membranes

40. Q: What route are auto injectors?
    A: Intramuscular

42. Q: Should you use abbreviations on run reports?
    A: No

43. Q: What us a renal calculi
    A: Kidney stones

44. Q: Can old people overdose on recreational drugs
    A: Yes

45. Q: Taking your time is the biggest thing to remember on behavioral health runs
    A: (The above is a statement, not a question)

46. Q: Why do we need a time when a patient took a handful of pills?
    A: We need the time a patient took pills because we need to know the amount of time before the effects kick in.
